docs: Expand thread titles documentation to cover auto-generation (#113)
hasura/promptql-docs: docs/promptql-playground/threads/3-thread-titles.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Thread Titles
description:
  "Learn about thread title functionality in the PromptQL Playground - automatic generation and manual editing"
keywords:
  - hasura
  - promptql
  - threads
  - thread titles
  - edit title
  - auto generation
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Thread Titles

## Introduction

Thread titles in the PromptQL Playground help you organize and identify your conversations with data. The system
provides both automatic title generation and manual editing capabilities to ensure your threads are properly labeled and
easy to find.

> ## Automatic Title Generation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Titles are automatically generated
```

> ### How It Works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When you start a new conversation, the PromptQL Playground automatically generates meaningful titles using large
language models. This happens after the first exchange between you and the assistant, replacing the initial default
title (which is a truncated version of your first message).

> ### Generation Process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generation process
```

The automatic title generation:

1. **Analyzes your conversation context** including:

   - Your initial user message
   - The assistant's response
   - The query plan (execution steps the agent will perform)

2. **Creates concise, descriptive titles** (maximum 7 words) that accurately summarize:

   - The core data request or analysis goal
   - Key entities like datasets, columns, or metrics
   - Primary data operations being performed

3. **Occurs automatically** after the first assistant action in a new thread

> ## Edit Thread Titles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Edit titles
```

> ### Accessing the Edit Feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can manually edit any thread title directly from the thread history sidebar. Look for the edit icon (pencil) next to
the thread title.

<Thumbnail src="/img/promptql-playground/edit-thread-title-1.png" alt="Edit Thread Title Button" />

> ### Editing a Thread Title

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When you click the edit icon, a dialog box will appear allowing you to modify the thread title:

<Thumbnail src="/img/promptql-playground/edit-thread-title-2.png" alt="Edit Thread Dialog Box" />

1. Enter your new title in the text field
2. Click `Save` to apply the changes

> ### Title Requirements
> 
> When editing titles manually, keep in mind:
> 
> - **Titles cannot be empty** - you must provide some text
> - **Maximum length is 100 characters** - keep titles concise and descriptive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::into Keep in mind

- **Titles cannot be empty** - you must provide some text
- **Maximum length is 100 characters** - keep titles concise and descriptive

:::
```
